#Computer Scientist

### Education
Computer Science, BA

### Work Experience

### Projects
Advising program
GoodEats, Recipe app
AAC Shelter, Website

## Narratives:
### Enhancement One:
This artifact is an advising program input, which was created during my CS 300 DSA: Analysis and Design, it is an application where the user will navigate through a menu to either load a data structure, load a course list, print course information, or exit the program. This is done through selecting 1-4, some choices requiring the user to into in course info. During the initial submission of this assignment, I had trouble working with the CSV file. I have added this to my portfolio to showcase my growth in terms of working with CSV files while also showcasing my ability to convert the file from CSV to JSON, where information is input, stored, and converted between the two types of files.
My goals for Category One were to get my CSV file to work and to use another coding language, which I feel like I was able to do. I had enough time to add the feature of adding courses to the list, which wasn’t originally a part of the assignment. I did incorporate another assignment into this one. It was a student course registration application. I added that to add a little extra to the assignment. Two things I learned through this enhancement were how to turn a CSV file into a JSON file and vice versa. A challenge I faced was getting transferred to work, but after doing some research, I was able to get it right
What I learned through this assignment is a theme for all of them: don’t overthink it. I noticed throughout all three of these projects that I overthought a lot of things that ended up turning out to be simple. I feel like keeping a clear plan and sticking to it is a rule of thumb I need to live by. I spent this whole week stressing about each project over a matter I was able to solve today, Sunday, the day it is due. I feel like this artifact has improved in complexity, formatting, and style. 
	For project one, I feel like I was able to achieve 2-5 in terms of the outcomes. I don’t know if I was able to touch on outcome 1, but I guess in a way I did create an application that will cater to staff members who are creating courses and assigning courses to the students, leaving the ability for the users to collaborate in one way or another. 
### Enhancement Two:
Briefly describe the artifact. What is it? When was it created?
The artifact goodEats is an application that was created during my time in CS 360. The application was a self-developed and made application where I ambitiously wanted to create a home for food lovers to gather and share their recipes. I wanted to add this into my ePortfolios for the same reason as the last enhancement, I had trouble completing the assignment and wanted to prove to myself that I could complete it. I did complete the things I failed to do during this course, but my ambitions were too big to tackle completely. I was able to create a registration page separate from the login screen. The login screen, once completed correctly, pulled the user to the homepage. To where they could find the recipes they wanted. 
The wall I ran into for this assignment was that I couldn’t correctly build my favorites page, and have the liked items added to it. Because of that, I had to get rid of a lot of files I worked on to support not only that feature but also the trending page I wanted to do. I can still do a mock page for now, but for time's sake, I turned in what I had completed so far. 
For this assignment, I feel like I was able to complete outcomes 2 and 4, I failed to get the other three by the time the final was due. 
### Enhancement Three:
This artifact is a database application that was created via Jupiter and Python. It displayed the charts of information that came from the CSV file. We are able to see a chart and a list of animals that are entered into the database. It was created on _ and enhanced throughout the course. I selected this to see if I could conquer what I failed to do during this class. For this artifact, I was able to showcase not only my skills with Python but also with MongoDB, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS. I incorporated Flask within the project as well. 
I learned many things I thought I had forgotten when it came to HTML, JavaScript, and CSS. I knew better than I thought I did. Some challenges I faced with this assignment were overthinking it. I found that once I got my collections from MongoDB connected, I was making it harder than it needed to be. Out of all of the ways to place the CSV info in I found one conversion code that made it simpler. It turned the CSV file into HTML format. That was a lot of data, so it stalled it some. 
	I feel like the outcomes were completed 1, 2, 4, and a little bit of 5. For this enhancement, I am truly proud of the work I was able to do with this assignment. From building up a website, to working with Flask and MongoDB, and not struggling as badly as I did with the ones I assumed were simpler than this one. I say this enhancement turned out rather well. 

### Professional Self-Assessment:
For my professional self-assessment, I apologize beforehand. I am not skilled at talking about myself, so hopefully this comes out right. After completing my coursework for CS 499 and enhancing three projects from my previous courses. I want to say my strengths lie in my ability to dedicate hours and time to researching and investigating my many errors. I have a hard time starting a lot of projects, but once I start, it becomes hard for me to stop. I am pointing this out because I believe a lot of my success with all three projects stems from the fact that I can’t rest until I figure out what's wrong. 
	There were nights I stayed up late trying to solve an error, and despite finding nothing after going through many coding forums and searching various videos. Sometimes I found the answer from staying up to keep researching, other times, a good rest and new eyes got me the answer. If I could praise myself for one thing is that I am a great researcher and I don’t stop until I find a lead or the answer. 
	A good example of this was the third enhancement. For this one, I had to decide what route I was taking. I knew I wanted to do an HTML website, but I had to find out what server I should use. I went through a lot of videos and forums on which one’s developers liked the most until I discovered MongoDB had its desktop application, and after seeing how you use MongoDB Compass, I found it to be the easiest and most pleasing option. I did have to discover how to transfer the CSV file into a collection, which once discovered it’s not hard. From there, I went through so many pages on how to make my collection HTML-friendly without having to rewrite everything or how to transfer my CSV file into a Json, then back again to keep both updated. Overly, I put in a lot of time into my research process, and I am truly proud of it. 
	For team collaboration, I would like to point out some skills I have noticed in my everyday work. Currently, I work as an authorization specialist for a mental health company. I am a part of a team. Pulling from my current job some collaborating skills I have noticed within the team environment is that I am a good support to my team, often I finish things first not because I blow through but my current job is rather repetitive so a lot of the authorization we process are simple not too often we get a difficult one. Once I have completed my work, I will reach out to support the others. If there is an urgent task that comes to our team, I would take it on the task. 
	Communication is a easy thing for me, if I have a question I don’t mind asking, I make sure to listen and take notes and if I am unsure about something in the moment like stated before I will ask my questions if it comes around during the time used working on the project I am happy to reach out and inquire on any concerns. For the Data Structures and algorithms section assignments, like AAC shelter, where we had to work with arrays, linked lists, and queues, are things that I felt the most growth with. Starting out my journey as a computer science student, my comfort with arrays, linked lists, stacks, etc., was not as strong as they are now. Even now, I feel like I have room for growth, but before, I would avoid them like the plague.  In my GoodEats project, I showed major growth with Arrays. I had to take it out because it was connected to a file that I could not get to work. I was Sad about it because I had no errors with those Java files. 
	My skills in software engineering and databases have improved as well. I was extremely afraid of my abilities within this category. Mainly because my skills weren’t as good as some of my other classmates. However, I made sure to really study and take time outside of my courses to brush up on my coding, how I went about testing, and even look into what went wrong when I tried to deploy my code. Security was another subject that I went to do more research on during the breaks between each course. Especially in the beginning, when we did a lot of projects and assignments on vulnerabilities. I took various mock tests that were created for the Security+ certification and did deep dives from reading materials. I don’t believe I am an expert yet, but I do find myself recognizing a lot of security hazards I see through my company's training. 
	To wrap up my self-assessment, I can say that I have come a long way since I first started. I can code and solve coding errors mostly on my own. With this improvement comes a level of confidence I have not only in my abilities but in my planning and decision-making. Planning was a skill that was hard for me to do, mostly because I would rather jump feet first than figure out where to go next. During the three artifacts, I understood the importance of planning, feedback, and communicating, in my case, how I would approach these enhancements and what I wanted to see within the finished project. If I can’t get my Gradle to configure with these implementations, what will I do to achieve the build I was aiming for? Being able to sit down and ask myself these questions has made this project a lot easier than it would have been at the beginning of my journey. 
